One very common task when smoke testing is
detecting if a website is responding to requests or not.
If the production candidate is not responding to requests,
we want that pipeline to stop.
Remember, we want to fail as soon as possible.
You can use a simple command like this one to see if a website is responding to requests.
Here we're just curling Google.
This command will fail if the website doesn't respond,
but will show the contents if it does respond.
You can put that command in a bash conditional
structure to return or do something like this.
If curl works on Google,
then echo it worked.
If Google's down for some reason, it failed.
Let's actually try this in a terminal.
I'm going to paste in our if structure and run it,
and it returns our contents and it even says it worked at the end.
But let's try it where we mess up that URL for a site that doesn't respond.
You can see here I'm using google333.com.
Let's see what happens. It failed because there is no google333.com.
Of course, all you need to do to automate this smoke test is just to wrap it in a CD job.